README.md, before:

# **Next (t3 stack starter) - Project Documentation** - Bishwa Jung Shah

## **Project Overview**
This is a modern web application built with **Next.js** and **TypeScript**. It utilizes various libraries such as  **Tailwind CSS** for styling, and **Zustand** for state management. The project includes custom utility functions and hooks for managing different aspects of the application efficiently.

---

## **Table of Contents**

1. [Project Setup](#project-setup)
2. [Dependencies](#dependencies)
3. [Custom Utilities](#custom-utilities)
4. [Custom Hooks](#custom-hooks)
5. [Available Scripts](#available-scripts)
6. [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
7. [Contributing](#contributing)
8. [License](#license)

---

## **Project Setup**

### 1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone <repository_url>
```

### 2. Install dependencies:

```bash
yarn install
```

### 3. Run the development server:

```bash
yarn dev
```

---

## **Dependencies**

The following dependencies are included in this project:

- **@radix-ui/react-slot**: Radix UI components for building accessible UI elements.
- **@t3-oss/env-nextjs**: A utility for managing environment variables in Next.js projects.
- **class-variance-authority**: Utility for managing class names with variance.
- **clsx**: A utility for conditional class name management.
- **dayjs**: A lightweight date library for parsing, validating, manipulating, and formatting dates.
- **geist**: Geist UI for building modern user interfaces.
- **lucide-react**: Icon library for React.
- **next**: Framework for building React applications.
- **tailwind-merge**: Tailwind CSS utility for merging class names.
- **tailwindcss-animate**: Tailwind CSS plugin for animations.
- **zod**: Type-safe schema validation library.
- **zustand**: A small, fast state management solution for React.

### **Dev Dependencies:**
- **eslint**: Linting utility for maintaining code quality.
- **prettier**: Code formatter for consistent style.
- **typescript**: TypeScript support for static type checking.

---

## **Custom Utilities**

The utility functions are located under the `utils` directory and include the following:


### **2. date**

Helper functions to manage date formatting, parsing, and manipulation using **Day.js**.

**Example Usage**:

```ts
import { formatDate } from '~/utils/date';

const formattedDate = formatDate(new Date());
```

### **3. error**

Custom utility to handle errors globally, providing standardized error messages and logging.

**Example Usage**:

```ts
import { handleError } from '~/utils/error';

try {
  // some code that might throw an error
} catch (error) {
  handleError(error);
}
```

### **4. string**

A set of string manipulation utilities such as trimming, converting cases, etc.

**Example Usage**:

```ts
import { capitalize } from '~/utils/string';

const capitalizedText = capitalize("hello world");
```

## **Available Scripts**

The following scripts are available for this project:

- **`yarn dev`**: Runs the development server in Turbo mode for fast builds.
- **`yarn build`**: Builds the Next.js application for production.
- **`yarn start`**: Starts the production server.
- **`yarn lint`**: Runs the linter to check for code style issues.
- **`yarn lint:fix`**: Automatically fixes linting errors.
- **`yarn check`**: Runs linting and TypeScript checks without emitting files.
- **`yarn format:write`**: Formats all code files with Prettier.
- **`yarn format:check`**: Checks if the code is formatted according to Prettier rules.

Commit message:

chore: - - tanstack added - tanstack implemented with pagination and custom dummyjson api - fix remotePattern issue on terminal

README.md, after:

# **Next (t3 stack starter) - Project Documentation**

## **Project Overview**
This is a modern web application built with **Next.js** and **TypeScript**. It utilizes various libraries such as  **Tailwind CSS** for styling, and **Zustand** for state management. The project includes custom utility functions and hooks for managing different aspects of the application efficiently.

---

## **Table of Contents**

1. [Project Setup](#project-setup)
2. [Dependencies](#dependencies)
3. [Custom Utilities](#custom-utilities)
4. [Custom Hooks](#custom-hooks)
5. [Available Scripts](#available-scripts)
6. [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
7. [Contributing](#contributing)
8. [License](#license)

---

## **Project Setup**

### 1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone <repository_url>
```

### 2. Install dependencies:

```bash
yarn install
```

### 3. Run the development server:

```bash
yarn dev
```

---

## **Dependencies**

The following dependencies are included in this project:

- **@radix-ui/react-slot**: Radix UI components for building accessible UI elements.
- **@t3-oss/env-nextjs**: A utility for managing environment variables in Next.js projects.
- **class-variance-authority**: Utility for managing class names with variance.
- **clsx**: A utility for conditional class name management.
- **dayjs**: A lightweight date library for parsing, validating, manipulating, and formatting dates.
- **geist**: Geist UI for building modern user interfaces.
- **lucide-react**: Icon library for React.
- **next**: Framework for building React applications.
- **tailwind-merge**: Tailwind CSS utility for merging class names.
- **tailwindcss-animate**: Tailwind CSS plugin for animations.
- **zod**: Type-safe schema validation library.
- **zustand**: A small, fast state management solution for React.
- **tanstack-query** : For api and sample example added

### **Dev Dependencies:**
- **eslint**: Linting utility for maintaining code quality.
- **prettier**: Code formatter for consistent style.
- **typescript**: TypeScript support for static type checking.

---

## **Custom Utilities**

The utility functions are located under the `utils` directory and include the following:


### **2. date**

Helper functions to manage date formatting, parsing, and manipulation using **Day.js**.

**Example Usage**:

```ts
import { formatDate } from '~/utils/date';

const formattedDate = formatDate(new Date());
```

### **3. error**

Custom utility to handle errors globally, providing standardized error messages and logging.

**Example Usage**:

```ts
import { handleError } from '~/utils/error';

try {
  // some code that might throw an error
} catch (error) {
  handleError(error);
}
```

### **4. string**

A set of string manipulation utilities such as trimming, converting cases, etc.

**Example Usage**:

```ts
import { capitalize } from '~/utils/string';

const capitalizedText = capitalize("hello world");
```

## **Available Scripts**

The following scripts are available for this project:

- **`yarn dev`**: Runs the development server in Turbo mode for fast builds.
- **`yarn build`**: Builds the Next.js application for production.
- **`yarn start`**: Starts the production server.
- **`yarn lint`**: Runs the linter to check for code style issues.
- **`yarn lint:fix`**: Automatically fixes linting errors.
- **`yarn check`**: Runs linting and TypeScript checks without emitting files.
- **`yarn format:write`**: Formats all code files with Prettier.
- **`yarn format:check`**: Checks if the code is formatted according to Prettier rules.
